[DOC] Modular monitoring appendix (#1736)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/book/proc-metrics-deploying-prometheus.adoc

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-metrics-prometheus.adoc
[id='proc-metrics-deploying-prometheus-{context}']

= Deploying Prometheus

To deploy Prometheus to your Kafka cluster, apply the link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml[Prometheus YAML^] resource file and the YAML files for Prometheus-related resources using the source for the Prometheus docker image in the `./metrics/examples/prometheus/install` directory of the repository.

The deployment process creates a `ClusterRoleBinding` and discovers an Alertmanager instance in the namespace defined in the YAML.

.Prerequisites

* Check the xref:ref-metrics-alertmanager-examples-{context}[example alerting rules provided]

.Procedure

> . Download and edit the Prometheus resource file from the repository to use a different `namespace`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Download the Prometheus resource file from the repository and replace the example namespace with your own:
```

+
On Linux, use:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml
+
On MacOS, use:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
curl -s https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml | sed -e '' 's/namespace: .*/namespace: _my-namespace_/' > prometheus.yaml

. Download and edit the `ServiceMonitor` resource in `strimzi-service-monitor.yaml` to define Prometheus jobs that will scrape the metrics data:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes,attributes"]
curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/strimzi-service-monitor.yaml

> . Currently, the Prometheus Operator only supports jobs that include an `endpoints` role for service discovery. To use another role:

Reviewer: Our documentation doesn't really explain enough for a reader to understand what this means.

Author: I've expanded this in a note in the procedure introduction: 
NOTE: Currently, the Prometheus Operator only supports jobs that include an `endpoints` role for service discovery. Targets are discovered and scraped for each endpoint port address. For endpoint discovery, the port address may be derived from service (`role: service`) or pod (`role: pod`) discovery.

@ppatierno and @stanlyDoge - Does this mean we should only configure the Operator for endpiunt discovery? In the example `prometheus-additional.yaml` it's configured for node discovery.

Author: @ppatierno and @stanlyDoge - Does this mean we should only configure the Operator for endpiunt discovery? In the example prometheus-additional.yaml it's configured for node discovery.

Author: Changed the note to say 'By default,  ...'

// This assembly is included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-metrics-prometheus.adoc
[id='proc-metrics-deploying-prometheus-{context}']

= Deploying Prometheus

To deploy Prometheus to your Kafka cluster, apply the link:https://raw.githubusercontent.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/{GithubVersion}/metrics/examples/prometheus/install/prometheus.yaml[Prometheus YAML^] resource file and the YAML files for Prometheus-related resources using the source for the Prometheus docker image in the `./metrics/examples/prometheus/install` directory of the repository.

> The deployment process creates a `ClusterRoleBinding` and discovers an Alertmanager instance in the namespace defined in the YAML.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The deployment process creates a `ClusterRoleBinding` and discovers an Alertmanager instance in the namespace defined in the YAML file.
```
